>> Student: Could we have a kind
of middleware for server actions?
It could do getCurrentUser and
return a standard error code so
that we don't clutter our functions?
>> Scott Moss: That's a great question.
Because server actions are just functions,
you can just make a function for that and
you can make a higher-order function that
works as middleware for your functions.
You can use whatever pattern you want to
do that because they're just functions.
There is nothing that
Next.js will need to do.
So if you don't want to clutter your
code with the same logic, yeah,
you can make a higher-order
function that does that and
then calls your server action when it's
done, which is a great pattern, yeah.
So yeah,
I decided to not do the delete stuff so
we can get to more important things.
But essentially the useTransition hook,
it's really simple.
First of all, it has nothing to do
with Next.js, it is a react thing.
So if you don't know more
about these new hooks, again,
check out Brian Holt's course, he covers
this pretty well, I'm pretty sure he does.
But essentially, the transition hook
allows us to wrap a server action,
so in this case deleteIssue, and
we get access to the status of that,
so whether or not it's pending.
So this is great for showing a loader
while you're still deleting.
It's pretty much the same thing we
did with the useActionState hook.
But you don't need a form, you can just
do it, in this case, on a click, right?
So on a click, I'm calling handleDelete
and doing the startTransition here.
So essentially,
as you call startTransition, and
the great thing about this is
that it won't affect the UI.
So whatever you do in here
won't block the UI in any way.
That's the whole point of it.
So this is great for doing things
that have to happen on the server,
cuz they won't affect
the actual user interface and
slow things down, if you have
an animation or something like that.
They just added support for
async callbacks in the startTransition,
which is great.
But yeah, if you are doing
something on a user interaction and
that user interaction has
to call a server action,
just do the useTransition hook,
do your logic, and you're done.
>> Student: So you wouldn't use this for
something that needs to
give the user UI feedback?
>> Scott Moss: You wouldn't use this
to do this to give the user something.
I mean, you can.
If you were updating a state in here,
there's nothing stopping
you from doing that.
That's still gonna cause a re-render
if you wanna update a state.
But in that case,
you don't even need to startTransition,
just get rid of it and just call
deleteIssue directly in the handleDelete.
>> Student: And that works,
because this deleteIssue button is by
default a server component, right?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, it's a server action.
>> Student: Well, but
it's not a client component, right?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, you can't use hooks
unless you are in a client component.
So if you see a hook,
you're always in a client component.
You just can't use hooks on a server-
>> Student: So you'd have to use
transition here to call- No,
you don't have to.
>> Scott Moss: You literally do not have
to use transition here to call await
delete.
It'll still call it, because essentially
this is just an HTTP request.
>> Student: Right, right, right.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Student: Okay, yeah.
>> Scott Moss: So the client component
doesn't know the difference,
it doesn't know,
it's just an HTTP request.
But if you don't want that request
interfering with what's happening
on the page, it's literally the equivalent
of putting this in a useEffect, right?
If you put this in a useEffect,
it won't really interfere with
what's happening on the page.
That's essentially what this is.
>> Scott Moss: How many times have you
made a function in the useEffect and
then called the function
in the same useEffect?
That's how you'd have to
make an HTTP request,
you'd have to make a useEffect, right?
You'd have to do something like this.
You have to say useEffect,
>> Scott Moss: And
then you have to say do the thing.
>> Scott Moss: And then underneath it,
you have to call doThing.
Because you can't do asynchronous
things in a client component, so
this is how you have to do
an asynchronous thing, right?
This is how you would do the thing.
That's gross, so instead, you can just
call useTransition and do it here.